It's an amazing thing when we are
hanging out and doing retreats. You're
going to often find the person very
quickly who's like, "Oh yeah, I don't
belong here. I'm on the outside."
At the end of any of our weeklong
retreats, everybody knows they belong.
But people will come in with that sense
of, "Oh, I don't belong." That, you
know, is historic. It has nothing to do
with where they are today. They will
feel that feeling of not belonging no
matter where they are, which is weird
when you think about it. There's no way
that any of us in today's world can't
find a sense of belonging. And yet, when
you've defined yourself as an outsider,
what you're doing is you're finding that
you don't belong in every situation that
you go to. You might have a new family,
a wife that you married and kids, and
you feel like you don't belong there. Or
maybe if you're lucky, you feel like you
belong one place, but you don't belong
in all these other places. But what's
actually happening there, the reason
that we feel like we don't belong is
because then we might not get hurt.
When I was a kid, I think I was like 13
years old, I had a green mohawk. I just
didn't belong. I didn't belong in my
family. I didn't belong in school. I
didn't belong anywhere. And so I was out
to prove it. I was going to annoy people
to prove I didn't belong. I was going to
look away to prove that I didn't belong.
I was saying, "Will you love me if I do
this? Will you love me if I do that?"
And that's one way to do it. The other
way to do it is just to disappear. See,
nobody sees me. I don't belong here.
Nobody gets me. I don't belong here.
That's another way people do it. But all
it is is just a training. We've just
been trained that you're not going to be
accepted here. And then we turn that
training into I don't want to feel that
pain again. If I think I don't belong,
that I don't have to feel your
rejection. And not like rejection, oh,
I'm not going to have a date with you or
I'm not going to do business with you,
but the rejection that you received when
you were young, which which was
basically who you are essentially was
not good enough. And so that feeling
we're avoiding by constantly going
around and proving that we don't belong.
There's many ways in which we do it.
We've covered two already. One of the
ways, like I said, is that we are going
to say the things we are going to annoy.
we are going to prove to people that
that that we don't belong that they
don't accept us. The other way is to
hide. But the third way that people go
about proving that they don't belong is
that they are constantly in their mind
saying, "Oh, I'm a little bit better. I
know. I know. I got this. They don't got
it." That's typically comes because you
had highly critical parents and you've
cut out your emotions. And so the only
way that you protect yourself is to go,
"Oh, I'm better." And you can tell that
it's a form of protection because it
doubles down when you get attacked. If
you feel like someone's attacked you,
then you immediately start judging them,
start going into better. And that's
another way of feeling like, "Oh, I
don't belong." So the question then, of
course, is okay, if I've been trained
that I don't belong, what happens and
what do I do to get to a place where I
actually feel belonging?
And this is where it gets a little bit
weird. It gets weird because there is no
such thing as perfect belonging.
Like we don't perfectly belong anywhere.
Even in a deep meditation with yourself
and the sense of self evaporates and the
body, the sensations in the body start
evaporating. [music] It's like is that
really a belonging?
I've been married happily now for over
20 years. I love my wife. Is there
perfect belonging? Is there a perfect
match?
There's never such a thing. There's no
place where somebody can know us
completely, not even ourselves. So,
what's the that deep belonging that
we're looking for? That's really the
question that you have to come to when
you realize that this feeling like you
don't belong is just something that
you've been trained into.
>> [music]
>> So how does this resolve this idea that
there's belonging or lack of belonging
that whole thing just evaporates [music]
and the only way it particularly
evaporates is when you are yourself when
you speak your truth and you are okay
with whatever the results are. So I have
a great story about this. I was working
with somebody who was high up at one of
the big companies, but they weren't a
CEO and and so they could get hired and
fired and they were worried about that.
And one day they came to me and they
said, "Oh, you know, I'm thinking about
quitting and I'm wondering what do you
think? Should I keep my job or not keep
my job?" And I said, "Oh, I don't think
that's the question. You know, I think
the question is who do you have to be in
your job to be happy with your job?"
And if you answer that question and you
act that way, you might get fired. You
might leave. Who knows? It's okay either
way. But what I do know is the next job
that you find will be one that
accommodates who you are. It'll be one
that accepts who you are. And you will
walk into that job being who you are
rather than being what you think people
want from you. So she did it. She just
every day said, "These are the things
that I didn't say yesterday that are
true to me. I'm going to say them
today." and she was just full of
courage. She said, "Yep, politically
there's a consequence, but I don't care.
Yep, I might make enemies, but I don't
care. I'm going to be myself." And it
first started very defensive. Like she
was herself, but there was a defense to
it. There was a way in which she was
protecting herself. There's a way she
was putting herself above. And she
started to let that drop and just
started to be herself. So if something
hurt, she said, "Ouch." If she was
offended, she said, "I was offended." If
she disagreed, she disagreed, but she
didn't do it with any kind of punch. She
just was like, "Oh, yeah. I see it a
little bit differently." And maybe she'd
ask some how what questions like we do
in the connection course. And she just
started to be herself. And she got
fired.
I have to say I was surprised cuz it's
like 80% of the time they raise through
the ranks. They do a lot better. But
this is one of those 20% cases where she
got fired.
And I remember talking to her and I
said, "Well, what what what what is that
like for you?" She goes, "Oh, it's
great."
I was surprised again. I was like,
"What?" And she was like, "Yeah, it's
great to be fired for being myself is
the best possible way to be fired." What
she learned in that experiment was that
people, if she was herself, people could
trust her. There was no more I'm on the
outside. There was no more I'm better
than. There was no more I'm hiding.
There's no more I'm pushing to see if
you still love me. It was all
just her being her.
There's a native reward for being
yourself.
It is that you stop thinking about
whether you belong or you don't belong.
You just think about, oh, am I in
alignment with me right now? That's all
that that happens.
And when you consider that, when you go,
"Oh, am I alignment with me?" eventually
the world [music] starts arranging
itself around you. Maybe you get fired
like my client. Maybe you get a raise.
Maybe you get a promotion. Maybe you
find yourself in a different country.
But the world starts to align itself to
meet you where you are. The people who
don't like who you are leave. The people
who do like where you are who you are
come. And all of a sudden, you have a
world where you can be yourself. You
don't have to manage yourself.
There's always evidence that we don't
belong. But if you're being yourself
and that's what you're checking in with.
You're listening to yourself and saying,
"This is how I want to be."
Then eventually that question just fades
and the only question that's left is,
"Hey, am I acting in alignment right
now? And if not, what do I have to do to
get into alignment?"
So if you're really interested in going
deeper on belonging and that means
really understanding yourself, a great
way to do that is to be in connection
with yourself. And so we offer the
connection course and we offer it maybe
six, seven times a year. It's a great
course. It's really fun and it takes the
intellectual understanding that we do on
podcasts and [music] and videos and we
put it into the body through real life
experiments where we really get to
experience what it's like to be [music]
more deeply connected with ourselves, to
be more of ourselves and what it's like
when we're not and how out of alignment
feels. [music]
And we get to do it with each other. And
we get to do it in a way that we solve
the problems that we're having today in
the course.